Dialogue One: Donna and Mracy

Accounts payable, Donna speaking.

Hi Donna, this is Marcy, calling from Computer solutions, I just like to follow up 
on an invoice.

Certainly, how can I help you?

Bakc October, our company start new software and provide training for jack's department.
we send out a invoice number 224 on October 13, but we haven't receive pyament. I send
second request on December 15, but that stil is outstanding. 
Coule ytou pleease tell what your records show?

I am sorry, but i'm not see anything. Let me transer you to Jack.


HI Maryc, what's this about unpaid invoices.

Yeah, I don't know. I jsut wantdiering whta the deah is? may they got lost 



To be Honestly, my deak is among the moutain fo talbe , I am sure the invoice is buried somewhere

Than happens all of us, you know our terms.
net 30 days,
with intetest applied on overdue payment. we discuss that when we sign the ocntract.

Now i am willing to work iwth you, I fyou need payment plan or something...

No, No, it's not that. you are right marcy, I am sorry for the delay.
Tell you what, email me another invoice, Now  make sure it's taxized. we will get check  to you by Friday

Ok Jack, i will have a check by early next week,

if its not there by Tuesday, call me

will do, thanks for your help.











Everyone makes mistakes, I know, but we need to make our a plan.

B

Marcy does 
positive professional 

Now I am willing to wo

cover a few ways to make the offer.

I could review that report at weekend, 

aoplogize for the 


You are right, tell me what.

make the payment his priority.

we will not charge you for unsatisfactory hotel room.

"

"If it is not there next Tuesday, call me."

introduce the problem.

Good morning ATI

I have a question on liability insurance.

How can I assistant ?

I will like to fillow up on 

Tax 

I want to follow up on the new bug in the new software release.

Sandy here, what can I do for you?

"Od you have a moment to discuss meeting schedule."

My computer crashed, and I'd like to see can you send someone to fix it.

Repeat the whole sentence.

This is our second request ot the 

For three month, this invoice have been outstanding for three month.

we can work with you to come up a payment plan.

in a hurry, so I will experdise it.