renovation
2:19
Ok. Angela, you are reporting on the pregroess of our new office? right?

That's right. I dropped by the new headquater the day before yesterday. 
to have a look at how the renovation is coming along.

Good news or bad news?
 
well, the long and short of it is that we have to push back the planned moving day.
 
what be talked about here?  a week? a month? two month?
 
Bear with me a moment, the two main issuss were, is delay of shipment of
reception area. and poor over the subcontractors.
 
We got no control of Marvel shipment.what about the coordination problem?
 
I brought this with contractor.  and the
construction manager will be replaced with someone more experienced .
 
does anyone mind if I make ? here. I don't see why we ? here
this kind of project always get delayed and goes over budget.

Well, that's not always the case, but Yes it is rather common.

And of course, contingency was allocated within the original budget. right?
Absolutly, there was a 10% contigency and yesterday we hammer out the deal 
to get back on the track.

All the contractor are willing to work overtime, but the project will go
slightly over budget and will not be able to make all the delay.

Could you be a little more precise?

The bottom line is that we will be able ot move 
one month later than expected, if we go 5 percent over the origianl budget.

Good working, Angela. I think we can handle that.
Now, How about we talke about ... 
4:10








1. I see what you are saying,

2. I see your point, however, we have forseen the 

3.

You may have to 
Angela has make a decision to 

but the project will 
hammer out the deal.

in Angela's case, 

"the bottom line is we "

How else we can highlight

impact on the lunch.

Without further delay.

as long as main order is on time.

we  by using this system.

Now it's time to practice some language we've look at today.

restate the information in one sentense.

The key issue is poor staff training.

we can get 
Prompt: critical element
Critical element is to plan it 

If you can avoid lay off, 



The low quality of the product.
The main consideration is The low quality of the product.

If you can layoff the 
The 

The conflict between departments are very serious.
The most serious issue is 

The delivery will be late.

In the final analysisl, the plan is not workable.

To keep it short and sweet, everything is on the track.

The long and short of it is we will 

we will push back the launch date.

such as introducing, explain your recommendation.



Mention the action, we change suppliers and this should never happen again.

All machines have been 

plus your recommendation.

related to time and money.

"Well, the bo

By changing the design, we can 

will have any impanct on 

Other further delays, 

upset is on the time.

We can count .. by using this system.

We've look at 


restate the 

The reason why 

Key issue is poor staff training.

summarizing the finding.

projected 

Thanks for your listening. See you next time.   


Let me just draw your attention to the new system we are setting up.

As the tour progresses,

Have you any questions before we move on?

carl if he has any 

"Is everything clear"
"Fell free 

"Would you like to know anything else?"
"Let me know if you want to know anyting else in detail"

because you have other work to do?

Let's head back to our office.

you need to signpost the 

"That's the  end of the tour, 
"So how about some freshments?"

"Would you like to get by to eat?"

Indicating locations.


E2(12:50)
Where is the warehouse? on our right.
On our right, you can see the warehourse.

1. Where is the loading area? At the west end of the factory.
At the west end of the factory, we will find the loading area.

2. Where is the control room? Behind this door.
Behind this door is the control room.

3. Where is the lab? To the right.
To the right, you can see the lab.

4. Where is the inspection point for this line? Just ahead.
just ahead is the inspection point for this line. 



E.g.(15:00)
we stay on cutting ???? through continuous improvement.
we stay on cutting edge through continuous improvement.

I am afraid we have to shut down the production ???? for an hour.
I am afraid we have to shut down the production line for an hour.

We ?????? out that equipment last year as it kept breaking down.
We phased out that equipment last year as it kept breaking down.

Can we ??? up tour for monday morning?
Can we set up tour for monday morning?

Only enviornmently ??????????? products are made in this facility.
Only enviornmently sustainable products are made in this facility.

We are proud of our changing of to ?????? green product.
We are proud of our changing of to making green product.

(17:00)
That's all for this episode,
we study language and expression
Starting the tour.
Indicating the locations
focus on the area of interest.
concluding the tour.

See you next time and thanks for listening.
