Early to bed, and early to rise. etc.
Early to bed, and early to rise, etc.
\smallskip
2/26/2009 5:25PM English Class
In one English class, teacher figure out the following errors in my 
email writting. In each case, the correct one will follow the one with issues.
\smallskip

Justine chooses those pages to refactor majorly concerning the code 
maintenance.\par
Justine CHOSE those pages to refactor MAINLY concerning the code 
maintenance.
\smallskip

The detail reason is as the following.\par
The detail reason is as follows.
\smallskip

Please kindly review them and let me know your idea.\par
Please kindly review them and let me know your IDEAS.
\smallskip

Obama:
The recovery package that we are passing is only gonna be one leg in a, 
a at least three legged stool.

Chris: 1
In his first meeting with top congressional leaders at the white house, 
president 
Obama erged them to move swiftly and agressively to pass  
administration's proposed 825 billion economic stimulus plan.

For the troubled bank system, the asministration is working on a financial 
stability plan, and also on new regulation to prevent similar crisis in the
future.

Chris: 2
Mr. Obama said he is looking for bi-pratisan support for the economic stimulus.

Obama:
I recoginize that there is still some difference acound the table, and between
the administration and members of congress about particular details of the plan,
but what I think unifies this group is recognition that we are experiencing an
unprecedented perhaps, economy crisis that has to be dealt with and dealt with 
rapidly.

Chris: 3
President Obama said his stimulus will create 3-4 million jobs largely through
pbulic spending on road and other infrastructure, it will also aid cash-strapped
state government, provide tax cut for most workers and support small businesses.


Chris: 4
Democratic lawmakers drafts the plan. but some republican said it is too costly,
and will not achieve it's goals.

Republic house minority leader John Bana:
You go through a whole host of issues in the bill that has nothing to do with growing
job in America and help people keeping their job.

Chris: 5
Senate majority leader harry Reed says democrats has taken into account Republican
proposal for more tax cuts.

Reed:
This bill has 40, 45 percent of the bill as we have it from house, has involed tax cuts.

Chris: 6
Some economist say with more people losing their job and economy condition deteriorating,
a larger stimulus is needed.
Economist Robert Hutner said the government need to spend 1 trillion $ a year over the 
next two years.

Robert Hunter:
we have to have a stimulus that's big enough to get the economy back on the track. then when 
growth results, we can pay down the debts.

Chris: 7
Congressional leaders said they are optimistic the simulus plan will win approval
and be signed by president Obama before mid-February.

Chris Simpkin, VOA News, Washington

