2/23/2009 11:03AM
11th world computer congress.

Chapter 9: Theory and Practice

vocabulary:
pervasive   
--Existed everywhere.



sillicon valley.
silly icon valley.

pictograph 

bulb 
eye ball. 

a hand carrying a briefcase

Disenchant
free from enchantment

enchant
He was enchanted by the idea.


inbred
The act of mating closely related individuals.


Chapter 10: Are toy problems usefull?
dichotomy
--being twofold.
a classification into two opposed parts or subclasses.
The dichotomy between eastern and estern culture.

Chaper 6: Theory and practice - 1
The student and faculty here are teeming with exciting ideas, and I believe this creative ferment is due to the fact that we are maintaining an excellent balance between theory and practice.

She does these things for me while serving as secretary to several other people and keeping everyone's spirit up with her intagious laugher.

retract


Chapter 14: Artistic programming
The author was asked to write a commentary for the books.



I had no idea that a new discipline called computer sciende would soon spring 
up at numerous campuses, not did i realize that "deep down" I was really a 
computer scientist, not a mathematician. Computer scientists haven't discover 
each other yet. But I had been writting computer programs to help support 
education, and the book project was immediately appealling.

By the time I reached home that day I had planned the book in my mind, and I 
quickly jotted down the titles of 12 chapters.

My estimate of manuscript pages per printed page was off by a factor of three.

After hectic conference, we agree to change the original book to a series of 
seven volumes.
(I spent a very hectic Sunday.)

In the art of programming, Knuth is first, there is no second.

So I tried to gain efficiency by taking a year off to develop computer tools 
for typography. Alas, that project takes 11 years.

Chapter 
babylonian algorithm


Preface
This book assemble under one roof all of the things I've written about 
computer science for who aren't necessarily specialists in the subject - 
for computer scientists and mathmaticians in general, and for educated 
people in all fields.

Scientists always find it easiest to write for colleagues who have their 
own subspeciality. But George Forsythe told me in 1970 that I should be 
prepared to explain things to a wider group of people - at least once or 
twice during my life - even though it is scary to talk to people you 
don't know well. 

I kept his advice in mind during the next years and tried my best to 
fulfill the responsibility when suitable opportuinities arose. Writting 
such papers has proved to be a pleasant task, and quite instructive, 
becaust it has given a chance to reflect on what I has been doing and to 
see the things in a broder perspective. Therefore I hope the reader will 
learn at least a fraction of what I have learned when preparing the 
expository material in this book.

Chapter 0 give a brief definiton of computer science and related notions 
of algorithms and programms. Chapter 1 discuss the relationship between 
computer science and a branch of science that is its closest neighbour: 
Mathmatics.

Synergy between computer scientist and mathematics is further explored in 
Chapter 2,which tell us the story of how to cope with the limitation of time 
and space, as computers get faster and more powerful, yet do not keep up with 
our growing expectations.

...

I have made minor adjustments to the texts, but BY AND LARGE these chanpters remain essentially as I originally wrote them. the bibliography



chapter 2
reminiscent

quadratic   二次的
cubic       三次的
quartic     四次的

Important point and example
1. the difference between Finite and infinite is not as big as the difference between realistic and unrealistic.
author constructed some unimagible big numbers which is much much bigger than the whole neutrons in the universe.

2. some problem looks hard appaently may be attackable. 
Example is the latin square, in this case, you do not need to go through all the possibilites. 
there are more examples based on a 10*10 network.

3. some problem is really hard. you can not get the optimum result, but you may find a approxiamte result easily.
one problem is first proved to finite, then it is proved to unrealistic since it takes about
10 power 125.

4. computer may act as a assistant to show the result of the small cases, which is hardly done by hand. then it may still need the human being to conquer the problem finally, e.g.
latin sqare exists for number large than 6.
it is a tie for game of 8 consecutive point.(similar to 五子棋)


