Olivia Lin来信

Hi Richard,

I got your email and I'm glad that you are my pen pal.

I had my last day of school yesterday, and we're off until August for the summer.  I'm going to miss seeing my classmates and my teacher every day, but I hope to get together with friends to go to the park, to the museum and play.  When are you finished with school?  I go to Olive Elementary School, in Novato.  In my class, there are 19 students.  Some of the pen pals are in my class - Grant, Claire and Lauren.  I'm going to play with Lauren and Claire today.

When is your birthday?  Mine is October 20, 2003.

I hope you have a good day!

I'm attaching a picture of me, Zoe V., who's also a pen pal, and Zoe's dad.  We went to the beach two weeks ago, and looked in the tidepools - we saw sea anemones, starfish, and lots of crabs.

From,



回信
I’m glad too.

Now I am still in the kindergarten, there is no holiday in our kindergarten. I like my kindergarten and I can play with my friends during the summer since I have no holiday. Richard Ying and John Huang are my good friends and they are in the same kindergarten as I am. Richard Ying is also my classmate, so we play with each other often, sometime we went to the Park, sometimeswe went to Zoo together. 

By the way, Richard Ying has sent a mail to Grant Olson a few days ago. Please let Grant Olson know Richard Ying’s email (whxloveyang@hotmail.com) when you meet him.

It will be great if we can play together. If I went to the U.S, I will come to see you. If you come to China, Please come to my Home. I have many questions to ask, but I will leave it for the future.

Recently I am learning GO, an ancient Game in Chine, something like Chess, but it is much more complicated. I will attend a competition on GO next Monday and Tuesday. Currently I play GO with my father once every day. 

My birthday is March 2, 2005

Wish you have a great day.

Recently I have gone to the Shanghai Expo, I will post some photos next time.




我现在还在幼儿园，我们这个幼儿园没有假期，其他公立的是有的。不过我很喜欢我们的幼儿园，因为可以不需要有假期，可以一直和小朋友玩。我很richard ying，john huang 都是一个幼儿园的，但是john huang比我大一届。我和richard ying经常在一起玩，一起去公园，一起去近郊旅游。对了，他很早就给 Grant Olson 发mail了，一直期待收到Grant Olson的回复。你要是方便告诉Grant Olson一下Richard ying的 email：whxloveyang@hotmail.com，让他回复一下，非常谢谢。
要是什么时候我们能在一起玩就好了。如果我到美国，我就会去找你玩的。如果你来中国也一定来找我玩哦！我还有很多的问题想问，以后我再慢慢的问你吧。
我最近在玩围棋，每天晚上和爸爸杀一盘，下周一、二我还要去和小朋友们比赛。
我的生日是2005.3.2。

